Episode 21, Elizabeth.
Phoning Miki was always a long process.
He had given me the number to his “direct line”, which went to the desk of
his assistant, who was normally half asleep or drunk - I couldn’t tell which.
Then, the assistant would put me on hold for half an hour while he
fetched Miki from the golf course, the bowling alley, or wherever he was.
“Hello, Elizabeth!
How lovely to hear from you!” he announced when I finally got him on the phone.
“ I’ve been on hold for 40 minutes, Miki,” I said.
“What were you doing?”
“ I just got married to five young women, Elizabeth.
What do you think I was doing?” he asked.
My face turned bright red, and I was glad Miki couldn’t see it.
“My darling, I can feel you blushing over the phone!” he said.
He was clearly having fun teasing me, but I wanted to press on with business.
“I’m glad you’re…enjoying yourself, Miki.
You’ve had years of good stories in the press over here… and now we’re back to square one again.
Remember what I said about being careful?
Why on Earth did you marry five women?
And don’t tell me it’s because they’re all in love with you!”
Miki, as usual, turned on the charm, “They will be, perhaps, in time.
Your media over there didn’t mention that they would be lifted out of poverty.
All five are orphans and, trust me, they’re very happy about their new lives.”
“People are saying it’s because there are certain “rumours”.
I think I know what one is about, but I’ve even heard one that you are gay,” I pressed.
I was shocked when the line clicked dead.
Had I hit a raw nerve?
Touché.
But the phone rang again a moment later, and Miki was back on the line.
“Since we are going to talk about sensitive matters, I
would prefer to use a more secure line,” he explained.
“Your MI6 has eyes and ears everywhere.”
I rolled my eyes.
“Miki, you were filmed wearing a military uniform and threatening to invade nearby countries.
This is 2008 now.
There’s a camera on every phone and you can’t stop people from seeing what’s going on.”
I could sense that Miki was unhappy with me pushing him on this.
I knew he didn’t like me nagging, but I couldn’t help myself.
“What would you expect me to do, Elizabeth?” he said in an exasperated voice.
“I was just having fun at my wedding banquet.
Yes, I said some silly things – that’s what we do in Ankhazastan after a little drink.
Is that a crime over there?
Because here, it’s not.”
“Of course not,” I said.
“If you have total power, the law is whatever you say it is.
Miki, you’re 35 years old, you’re acting ridiculous and
you need to sort yourself out, then sort your country out.”
The line clicked dead.
Would he call back?
What would I do if he broke off all contact?
A minute passed and the phone rang.
“Elizabeth, I… you’re right about me drinking too much.
I should be more careful,” Miki said.
I was so touched to see the vulnerable side of him, and I softened.
“Thanks, Miki,” I replied.
“And I do look forward to seeing you again soon.”
“Me too,” said Miki.